home usually means Safety and Security
for this Palestinian family it's the
opposite surrounded by illegal Israeli
settlements threatened by increasing
attacks by settlers musab suan tells us
his family is left with no choice but to
lock themselves
in we can't leave the house alone my
sisters got married and I couldn't even
go to their weddings they are always
hovering around he says Israeli settlers
want them out so they can move in but
this is the only home they own and the
only land they know they call themselves
The Guardians of the
hill we were here before the settlers my
grandfather built the house in the 1970s
then my father and mother inherited it
we are here protecting it as well and
will pass it on to our kids since 1967
Israel has been establishing illegal
settlements on hilltops over time time
they expand at the expense of
Palestinians the San family says they
will not leave their home on the hill
for them This Is How They experience
Israeli military occupation violent
attacks illegal settlements and land
grabs let's now move to the center of
the occupied West Bank in kandia refugee
camp where for one family the occupation
means tragic losses of
life it was a Bittersweet moment
when sami's new grandson was born in
2005 they named him yaser after his
uncle who was killed by Israeli forces
four years
before we wanted him to bring joy to the
house I was happy he was born in Jordan
and I traveled there to meet him but in
2023 and just a few weeks before turning
18 yaser was buried in the same grave
site as his namesake both killed by the
the same Army not only them sami's Sons
Sam and Muhammad were also killed by
Israeli forces in 2002 and
2015 we do not bring children to this
life to die but to live we want to be
able to live in peace and have a good
life I lost my sons when they were very
young they were 11 15 and 17 years old
not every Palestinian family shares this
heavy loss of life but the occupation
still takes a toll on people one way or
another let's go now to habron in the
south of the occupied West Bank and see
how life there has been brought to a
Hal once brimming with life and a
bustling economy life is fading away in
the old city of
heon now it's a mere echo of what it
once
was the markets are dead no visitors no
foreigners we don't find customers for
the goods we buy and are in debt for the
75-year-old sells Palestinian cofas
local Artisans a symbol of the city's
Rich cultural
heritage I've been here for 17 years we
keep thinking it will get a bit better
instead every year it gets worse and
worse people are scared they're
humiliated at the checkpoints so they
avoid this area altogether the Sun is
setting here in h on the economic
capital of the occupied West Bank the
city still has a few hours before it
goes to sleep people are shopping and
working but the sun has set way earlier
in the old city of
hron Palestinians say time too is a
victim of occupation lost in cues
alternative routes checkpoints and
closures time stolen from a nation stuck
in Waiting nid ibraim Al jaaz the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer